##### [[ERC4626]]

- It is a tokenized vault standard that uses [[ERC20]] tokens to represent shares of some other asset.
- When you deposit assets into the  [[ERC20]] vault, you receive shares that reflect your proportional stake in the total assets held by the vault.

###### How does it work?
- You deposit one [[ERC20]] token (*Token A*) into the [[ERC4626]] contract, and get another [[ERC20]] token back (*Token S*)
- *Token S* represents you share of al of the *Token A* owned by the contract
- Later you can return *Token S* to get back your *Token A* 
	- If the balance of *Token A* in the vault grew faster than *Token S* was produced, then your withdraw proportionately larger *Token A* than you deposited.
- The value of shares is determined by the total assets in the vault and the total number of shares issued, which can change based on deposits and withdrawals.
- how many shares you receive depends on the current state of the vault's total assets and total shares.

###### Contract
- [[ERC4626]] extends the [[ERC20]] contract and during construction phase, it takes as an argument the other [[ERC20]] token users will be depositing to it.
- It supports all the functions and events from [[ERC20]]: `balanceOf`, `transfer`, `transferFrom`, `approve` and so forth.
- The more shares (*Token S*) you own, the more rights you have to the underlying asset(the other [[ERC20]] token) that gets deposited into it.
- Each [[ERC4626]] contract only supports one asset. You cannot deposit multiple kinds of [[ERC20]] tokens into the contract get shares back.

###### Why [[ERC4626]]?
- Imagine a liquidity pool that earns a stablecoin DAI periodically. One of inefficient way to distribute the earnings is to push out DAI to each of the holders contributed to liquidity pool but it would be extremely expensive gas wise. or to even update everyone's balance inside a smart contract would also be expensive too.
- In [[ERC4626]], instead of updating everyone's shares one-by-one, only the total supply of shares and the amount of assets in the contract changes.
- [[ERC4626]] standard provides a gas efficient means for executing very common DeFi accounting practices.

###### ERC4626 Shares
- There are two functions in ERC4626 to know which asset the contract uses and how many are owned by the contract
1.  ```function asset() returns (address)```
	- It returns the address of the token used for the vault. 
2. ```function totalAssets() returns (uint256)```
	- It returns the total amount of assets owned by the vault.
	```
	/** @dev See {IERC4626-totalAssets}. */
	function totalAssets() public view virtual override returns (uint256) {
	    return _asset.balanceOf(address(this));
	}
	```
###### Send assets and get shares: deposit() and mint()
- With `deposit()`, you put in assets and function will calc how many shares to send you
```
// EIP: Mints a calculated number of vault shares to receiver by depositing an exact number of underlying asset tokens, specified by user.

function deposit(uint256 assets, address receiver) public virtual override returns (uint256)
```

- With `mint()` , you put in how many shares you want, and the func will calc how much ERC20 asset to transfer from you.
```
// EIP: Mints exact number of vault shares to receiver, as specified by user, by calculating number of required shares of underlying asset.

function mint(uint256 shares, address receiver) public virtual override returns (uint256)
```

- if not enough assets to transfer in to the contract, the tx will revert

**The following condition should always be true**

```
// remember, erc4626 is also an erc20 token
uint256 sharesBalanceBefore = erc4626.balanceOf(address(this));
uint256 sharesReceived = erc4626.deposit(numAssets, address(this));

// strict equality checks in accounting are a big no no!
assert(erc4626.balanceOf(address(this)) >= sharesBalanceBefore + sharesReceived);
```

- **`sharesBalanceBefore`** is the current balance of shares held by the contract itself (`address(this)`) before any new shares are deposited.  It uses the `balanceOf` function, which is standard in ERC-20 contracts.
- **`sharesReceived`** calls the `deposit` function on the `ERC4626` contract. It deposits a specified amount of assets (`numAssets`) into the vault and returns the number of shares received in exchange for those assets. The shares are  issued to whoever is calling the `deposit` function, which could be a user or another contract.
- assertion implies that the contract only receives the shares after the deposit has been made and it checks whether the total number of shares held by the contract after the deposit is at least equal to what it was before plus any new shares received from the deposit.
	- The `deposit` function handles both transferring assets into the vault and minting new shares for the depositor.


**Why balance of shares in the vault can be equal to or greater than before a deposit ?**
- It mainly due to the mechanics of how shares are minted and potential for yield generation.

###### Mechanics of ERC4626 
**1. Deposit and Share Minting**
- When user deposits assets into the vault, the vault calc the no. of share to mind based on the amount of assets deposited and current exchange rate between assets and shares
$$new shares = (assets deposited \times total shares) \div total assets defore deposit$$
- so, if the total assets in vault increase (due to deposits or accrued interest), the number of shares minted can also increase.

**2. Yield Generation**
- As assets are deposited, they can be utilized in various strategies (like lending or investing) which generate additional returns.
- Over time, as these strategies yield returns, the total assets in the vault increase, which can lead to a higher value of each share without necessarily increasing the number of shares immediately.

**3. Shares balance after deposit**
- The contract mints new shares based on the deposited assets.
- If the total assets in the vault increase due to yield generation or additional deposits from other users, the total number of shares may remain constant or increase, but their value (in terms of underlying assets) increases because there are more assets backing those shares.

Therefore the condition `erc4626.balanceOf(address(this)) >= sharesBalanceBefore + sharesReceived` must always be true.

###### Predict shares
- There are two functions to predict how many shares you will get:
	1. `previewDeposit` : takes assets as an argument
	2. `previewMint` : takes shares as an argument
###### Predict shares Ideal conditions
- There's a view function called `convertToShares` which take assets as an argument and returns the amount of shares you will get under ideal conditions(*no slippage or fees*)
	**What's the use of this ideal information?**
	- The difference between ideal and actual results tells you how much your trade is impacting the market and how the *fee* depends on trade size.
	- A smart contract could do a binary search on the difference between `convertToShares` and `previewMint` to find the best trade size to execute.

###### Return shares, get assets back
- The inverse of `deposit` and `mint` is `withdraw` and `redeem` respectively.
- `withdraw` lets you specify how many **assets** you want to take from the contract, and the contract calculates how many of your shares to burn.
- With `redeem`, you specify how many **shares** you want to **burn**, and the contract calculates the amount of assets to give back.
###### Predict how many shares to burn to get assets back
- The view methods for `withdraw` and `redeem` are `previewRedeem` and `previewWithdraw` respectively.
- `convertToAssets` function takes shares as an argument and gives you how many assets you will get back, not including fees and slippage.

###### Address argument
```
function mint(uint256 shares, address receiver) external returns (uint256 assets);

function deposit(uint256 assets, address receiver) external returns (uint256 shares);

function redeem(uint256 shares, address receiver, address owner) external returns (uint256 assets);

function withdraw(uint256 assets, address receiver, address owner) external returns (uint256 shares);
```
- The functions `mint`, `deposit`, `redeem`, and `withdraw`, have an second argument “**receiver**” for cases where the account receiving shares or assets from the [[ERC4626]] is not `msg.sender`. This means I can deposit assets into the account and specify that the [[ERC4626]] contract give you the shares.
		- The functions redeem and withdraw have a third argument, “**owner**” which allows `msg.sender` to burn the shares of the “**owner**” while sending assets to the “**receiver**” (second argument) if they have allowance to do so.
###### maxDeposit, maxMint, maxWithdraw, maxRedeem
- These functions take identical arguments to their state-changing counterparts and return the largest trade they can execute. This can change per address.
###### Events
- Two events in addiiton to the [[ERC20]] events it inherits
	- Deposit event
	- Withdraw event
- These are also emitted if mint and redeem were called, because functionally the same thing happened: tokens were swapped.
###### Slippage problem
- [[ERC4626]] standard does not dictate how the pricing algorithm should work.
- The huge difference in value between asset and shares, and it could happen for various reasons;
	- like with AMMs a large trade might use up the liquidity and cause price to move substantially
	- a tx getting frontrun or sandwich attack. 
- To avoid this, the contract interacting with ERC4626 should measure the amount of shares it received during a `deposit` (and assets during a `withdraw`) and revert if it doesnt not receive the quantity expected within a certain **slippage tolerance**.

##### NOTE:
- A new ERC4626 vault with first deposit assets will have equal no. of shares, in 1:1 basis but overtime it changes due to yield generation strategies.

###### Inflation Attack
- If there are 10,000 assets, and 100 shares, then 100 assets should result in 1 share.
-  if someone sends 99 assets? It will round down to zero and they get zero shares.
- If an attacker donates money to the vault, one share is suddenly worth more than it was initially. If there are 10,000 assets in the vault corresponding to 100 shares, and the attacker donates 20,000 assets, then one share is suddenly worth 300 assets instead of 100 assets.
**Defense**
1. **Slippage Tolerance :** slippage check in deposit function to ensure user gets fair rate. beyond certain tolerance during the tx, it should revert.
2. **Initial Large deposit by deployer :** makes it harder to significantly impact share prices, as larger vaults are less sensitive to small manipulations
3. **Virtual Liquidity :** Adding “virtual liquidity” to the vault so the pricing behaves as if the pool had been deployed with enough assets.
