- It deals with changes to the fee model
- before this, the fee model was first-price auction. Users had to bid to have their tx picked up by miners. so higher the gas price the higher chances of miners picking up the tx, this is exploiting users.
- EIP-1559 aims to achieve following goals
	- 1. making tx fees more predictable
	- 2. reducing delays in tx confirmation
	- 3. automating fee bidding system to improve UX
	- 4. positive feedback loop between network and eth supply

- Introduces **Base fee**, minimum fee that has to be paid to be included in the block, 
	- it is set per block
	- it can be adjusted based on the network congestion


 ##### How **Base Fee** is Determined
The base fee is determined through a combination of on-chain mechanisms and off-chain predictions. 

- The base fee in Ethereum is determined through a dynamic adjustment mechanism that responds to network demand, aiming to keep block times consistent. It incorporates elements from the previous block's base fee, data from the Beacon Chain in the transition to Ethereum 2.0, and is influenced by off-chain predictions. This system ensures that miners are compensated fairly for their work, while also making transaction fees more predictable and understandable for users.

- EIP-1559 does not directly change the maximum gas limit per block, instead, it introduces a new fee structure to improve transaction fee predictability. Increasing Ethereum's network capacity, which is a separate topic addressed through other EIPs. For example, EIP-3198 proposes a mechanism to query the current gas limit, and EIP-3200 suggests a way to adjust the gas limit dynamically based on network conditions.

- The gas limit set by users for transactions is a per-transaction specification that caps the computational effort for that transaction. The block gas limit is a network-wide parameter enforced by validators (or miners) to ensure that the total computational effort of all transactions in a block does not exceed a predefined threshold.


- The Base fee can increase or decrease maximum 12.5% per block
- So it would take roughly 20 blocks around 5 mins for gas prices to go 10x 
- and 40 blocks to go 100x

##### Why Burn base fee?
- Burning base fee creates the feedback loop between network usage and eth supply
- More network activity = more Eth burnt = Less Eth available on the market to be sold by miners, making already existing Eth more valuble.
- rewards users of the network by making their Ether more scarce.
- **Prevents Miner Manipulation**: By not sending the base fee to miners, it removes their incentive to manipulate the fee to extract more fees from users.
- **Reduces Inflation**: Burning the base fee counterbalances Ethereum inflation, ensuring that the circulating supply of ETH decreases over time.
- **Ensures Economic Value of ETH**: By only allowing ETH to be used to pay for transactions, the burned base fee ensures the economic value of ETH within the Ethereum platform, reducing risks associated with miner extractable value (MEV).